Ethersjs Article (#28)
kauri-io/Content: EthersJs/accelerating-development-with-ethersjs.md

# Accelerating DApp Development with Ethersjs

> Today's decentralized application stack often consists of a front end component, smart contracts, and a framework to interact with the blockchain. Web3 is used today in a majority of cases to facilitate the interaction with the Ethereum blockchain, however, Web3 is a large, poorly documented, and difficult to maintain. Ethersjs is an alternative library that offers all of the features of web3 in a tiny, well-tested package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today's decentralized application stack often consists of a front end component, smart contracts, and a framework to interact with the blockchain. Web3.js is used today in a majority of cases to facilitate the interaction with the Ethereum blockchain, however, Web3.js is large, poorly documented, and difficult to maintain. Ethers.js is an alternative library that offers all of the features of web3.js in a smaller, well-tested package.
```

> Ethersjs is used today to create a seamless connection between a frontend and the Ethereum blockchain. In this example, we employ Angular 7.X and Ethersjs to create a simple wallet application and interact with a smart contract deployed on the Ethereum blockchain.

Reviewer: @jacobcreech And same here, use the correct project names "web3.js" and "ethers.js"

> Ethersjs is used today to create a seamless connection between a frontend and the Ethereum blockchain. In this example, we employ Angular 7.X and Ethersjs to create a simple wallet application and interact with a smart contract deployed on the Ethereum blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ethersjs is used today to create a connection between a frontend and the Ethereum blockchain. In this example, we employ Angular 7.X and Ethersjs to create a simple wallet application and interact with a smart contract deployed on the Ethereum blockchain.
```

Careful with words like "seamless" etc, or "weasel" words. We all know that development is never "easy" or "seamless", this isn't a marketing piece, we can be honest ;)

### Prerequisites

> First, you will need to install nodejs and Angular. Both installations can be found here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you need to install node.js and Angular. You can find both installations here:
```

Correct project name, removed unnecessary future tense (readers are doing this *now*) and passive voice. These are all grammar rules that I don't expect people to fully understand, and will correct many in a final edit, but also believe in helping tech writers learn them :)

- [Nodejs](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- [Angular](https://angular.io/guide/quickstart)

### Creating a Wallet Application

To get started, download the following initial [Angular application](https://github.com/jacobcreech/Ethersjs-example/tree/initial). To start, run

```
npm install
ng serve --open
```

> You should be greeted with the words "initial application" in your browser.

Reviewer: I get a blank screen, should the initial project be working at this point?

> Ethersjs follows the general standard of installing packages for your application. Simply run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ethersjs follows the general standard of installing node packages for your application, run the below to install it
```

```
npm install --save ethers
```

> Now everything is set up to work with Ethersjs on our simple application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now everything is set up to work with Ethers.js in our application.
```

## Creating a Wallet

> We are first going to use Ethersjs to create a new wallet. Change to the following html:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We first use Ethers.js to create a new wallet. Change `/src/app/wallet/wallet.component.html` to the following html:
```

> /src/app/wallet/wallet.component.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```
<div fxFlex="20"></div>
<div fxFlex="60" class="wallet">
  <button mat-raised-button color="primary" (click)="onSubmit()">Generate Wallet</button>
  <p *ngIf="publickey">Public Key: {{publickey}}</p>
  <p *ngIf="privatekey">Private Key: {{privatekey}}</p>
</div>
<div></div>
```

> To create a wallet, we use the wallet.createRandom() to create a random public and private key. We can use this wallet to do other actions with, such as creating transactions and signing messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a wallet, we use the `wallet.createRandom()` to create a random public and private key. We can use this wallet for other actions, such as creating transactions and signing messages.
```

> /src/app/wallet/wallet.component.ts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `/src/app/wallet/wallet.component.ts`, change the `onSubmit() {}` function to the below
```

```
onSubmit() {
      const randomWallet = ethers.Wallet.createRandom();
      this.publickey = randomWallet.address;
      this.privatekey = randomWallet.privateKey;
      const wallet = new ethers.Wallet(this.privatekey);
  }
```

> Before we can do anything with this wallet, we must first connect it to the Ethereum blockchain. We will be doing this using the default web3 provider by Ethers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before we can do anything with this wallet, we must first connect it to the Ethereum blockchain. We do this using the default web3 provider by Ethers.
```

> Add the following to the wallet.component.ts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update the `ngOnInit() {}` function in `wallet.component.ts` to the below:
```

```
provider: any;

ngOnInit() {
  this.provider = ethers.getDefaultProvider('homestead');;
}
```

This obtains the web3 connection provided by Metamask and makes it ready to use by Ethers.

### Sending and Signing Transactions

> Next, we create the ability to send a transaction on our application. Ethers provides the ability to edit any data within a transaction, such as gas limit and what address you are sending the transaction to. In order to send a transaction using the wallet, create a send transaction button that uses the sendTransaction method from Ethersjs, as well as some form fields for input on the transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we create the ability to send a transaction with our application. Ethers provides the ability to edit any data within a transaction, such as gas limit and what address you are sending the transaction to. In order to send a transaction using the wallet, create a send transaction button that uses the `sendTransaction` method from Ethersjs, as well as some form fields for input on the transaction.
```

> /src/app/wallet/wallet.component.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside `/src/app/wallet/wallet.component.html` add the code below inside the two `<div>`s
```

```
<form [formGroup]="transactionForm" (ngSubmit)="sendTransaction(transactionForm.value)">
        <mat-form-field appearance="outline">
        <mat-label>To</mat-label>
        <input formControlName="toAddress" matInput placeholder="0xAddress">
      </mat-form-field>
      <mat-form-field appearance="outline">
        <mat-label>Amount</mat-label>
        <input formControlName="etherAmount" matInput placeholder="1">
        <span matSuffix>Ether</span>
      </mat-form-field>
        <button mat-raised-button color="secondary">Send Transaction</button>
    </form>
```

> In your class, import the formModules and create the base form information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `wallet.component.ts` class, import the `formModules` and create the base form information.
```

People may not fully know Angular.

Also, this step suddenly adds a lot more to the wallet.component.ts file, should we mention all of what you've added here, or change the file in the initial repo, or something else?

Reviewer 2: I'm trying to cover all of the changes to module.ts in the initial repo so that the only work that a reader has to do is in wallet.component.ts. This skips any of the information or changes to Angular that I can avoid, and keeps the general focus to what Ethers.js can do.

```
import { Component, OnInit } from '@angular/core';
import { ethers } from 'ethers';
import { FormBuilder, FormGroup, NgForm } from '@angular/forms'; 

@Component({
  selector: 'app-wallet',
  templateUrl: './wallet.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./wallet.component.scss']
})
export class WalletComponent implements OnInit {

    publickey: string;
    privatekey: string;
    transactionForm: FormGroup;
    toAddress: string;
    etherAmount: string;
    wallet: any;
    provider: any;

  constructor(private fb: FormBuilder) { 
      this.transactionForm = fb.group({
          'toAddress': [null],
          'etherAmount': [null]
      });
  }

  ngOnInit() {
      this.provider = ethers.getDefaultProvider('homestead');;
  }

  onSubmit() {
      const randomWallet = ethers.Wallet.createRandom();
      this.publickey = randomWallet.address;
      this.privatekey = randomWallet.privateKey;
      this.wallet = new ethers.Wallet(this.privatekey, this.provider)
  }

}
```

> In order to send a transaction, Ethersjs provides a simple sendTransaction method for all wallets. Add a sendTransaction method to the wallet class, inputting the form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to send a transaction, Ethersjs provides a `sendTransaction` method for all wallets. Add a `sendTransaction` method to the wallet class, inputting the form.
```

```
sendTransaction(form: NgForm) {
    let transaction = {
      to: form.toAddress,
      value: ethers.utils.parseEther(form.etherAmount)
    }

    this.wallet.sendTransaction(transaction)
        .then((tx) => {
            console.log(tx);
        })
}
```

> We first create the transaction object, giving where the transaction is going in the `to` field. `value` denotes how much ether, default in the units Wei, is being sent to the address mentioned. We use the parseEther util provided by ethers to easily convert from Ether to Wei. After creating the transaction object, we use our wallet we created before to send the transaction. In this implementation, the console logs the transaction receipt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We first create the transaction object, giving where the transaction is going in the `to` field. `value` denotes how much ether, default in the units Wei, is being sent to the address mentioned. We use the `parseEther` util provided by ethers to easily convert from Ether to Wei. After creating the transaction object, we use our wallet we created before to send the transaction. In this implementation, the console logs the transaction receipt.
```

> Signing a message in a transaction is very useful for a number of reasons. A signed message can be used to verify that the owner is the address provided, and this allows smart contracts and other entities to verify the truth in a trustless system. To sign a message using Ethers, you use the signMessage function on your message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Signing a message in a transaction is useful for a number of reasons. A signed message can be used to verify that the owner is the address provided, and this allows smart contracts and other entities to verify the truth in a trustless system. To sign a message using Ethers, you use the `signMessage` function on your message.
```

```

> wallet.signMessage(message);

Reviewer: Do readers need to add this somewhere? If so, where?

Reviewer 2: Removed in an upcoming commit. Decided signing was too much of an aside to include. You can let me know if you think otherwise.

```

## Interacting with Smart Contracts

One of the many novelties of Ethereum is the creation and use of smart contracts on the blockchain. Dapp development relies on easy interaction with smart contracts, and Ethers has an easy to use solution.

> Take for example this very simple [Sample Contract](https://ropsten.etherscan.io/address/0x8a32989b65186d3596251d7d7c8a427a26669354#code). In this contract, we store variables by adding it to the blockchain and can read all currently stored variables. Interacting with this contract with Ethers, we first create the ABI for it, found [here](https://ropsten.etherscan.io/address/0x8a32989b65186d3596251d7d7c8a427a26669354#code).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take for example this [Sample Contract](https://ropsten.etherscan.io/address/0x8a32989b65186d3596251d7d7c8a427a26669354#code). In this contract, we store variables by adding it to the blockchain and can read all currently stored variables. Interacting with this contract with Ethers, we first create the ABI for it, found [here](https://ropsten.etherscan.io/address/0x8a32989b65186d3596251d7d7c8a427a26669354#code).
```

Reviewer: And why do we need to do this? Might be good to explain the why before diving straight into the how.

Reviewer 2: Updated with a little more explanation. Please let me know if this suffices.

```
let abi = [{"constant":false,"inputs":[{"name":"_value","type":"uint256"}],"name":"add","outputs":[],"payable":false,"stateMutability":"nonpayable","type":"function"},{"constant":true,"inputs":[],"name":"getValues","outputs":[{"name":"","type":"uint256[]"}],"payable":false,"stateMutability":"view","type":"function"},{"inputs":[],"payable":false,"stateMutability":"nonpayable","type":"constructor"}];
```

We know the address of the contract is at `0x8a32989b65186d3596251d7d7c8a427a26669354`. Using both of these and our wallet, we can create a contract object using Ethers.

```

> let contractAddress = '0x8a32989b65186d3596251d7d7c8a427a26669354';

Reviewer: Again, where does this code go?

let contract = new ethers.Contract(contractAddress, abi, wallet);
```

In the contract, we find both the add and getValues functions. To call these functions using Ethers, you call the functions listed in the ABI. 

```

> await contract.add("Message");

Reviewer: And where does this code go?

contract.getValues()
        .then((result) => {
        console.log(result);
        });
```

> We can add this to our UI by adding an additional field and a getValues field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can add this to our UI by adding an additional field and a `getValues` field.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the code below to `wallet.component.html` inside the nested `<div>`s.
```
```

Reviewer: If this is the correct place

<form [formGroup]="contractForm" (ngSubmit)="addToContract(contractForm.value)">
        <mat-form-field appearance="outline">
        <mat-label>Value</mat-label>
        <input formControlName="value" matInput placeholder="1">
      </mat-form-field>
        <button mat-raised-button color="secondary">Add to Contract</button>
</form>
<button mat-raised-button color="primary" (click)="getValues()">Get Values</button>
<p *ngIf="message">Message: {{message}}</p>
```

> We add the previous code to functions getValues() and addToContract(), as well as creating the forms in our ts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the code above to the `getValues()` and `addToContract()` functions, as well as adding the forms to `wallet.component.html`.
```

If this is correct, especially the form.

```
contractForm: FormGroup;
message: string;
value: string;
abi: any;
contractAddress: any;

constructor(private fb: FormBuilder) { 
      this.contractForm = fb.group({
          'value': [null]
      })
      this.abi = [{"constant":false,"inputs":[{"name":"_value","type":"uint256"}],"name":"add","outputs":[],"payable":false,"stateMutability":"nonpayable","type":"function"},{"constant":true,"inputs":[],"name":"getValues","outputs":[{"name":"","type":"uint256[]"}],"payable":false,"stateMutability":"view","type":"function"},{"inputs":[],"payable":false,"stateMutability":"nonpayable","type":"constructor"}];
      this.contractAddress = "0x8a32989b65186d3596251d7d7c8a427a26669354";
  }

addToContract(form: NgForm) {
          let contract = new ethers.Contract(this.contractAddress, this.abi, this.wallet);
          contract.add(form.value);
  }

  getValues() {
      let contract = new ethers.Contract(this.contractAddress, this.abi, this.wallet);
      contract.getValues()
              .then((result) => {
                  this.message = result;
              });
  }
```

## Further Improvements

> We have created a simple Dapp that can create a wallet, send a transaction, and interact with a smart contract. Using Ethersjs, we are able to interact with the Ethereum blockchain with ease and expand to more complex use cases. Further improvements to this demo that we have created would be to create a better design, add more wallet integrations, and separation of concerns between the wallet and contract component. With this demo app, you can now include a wallet app by just including the wallet web component in your dapp. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial we created a dapp that creates a wallet, sends a transaction, and interacts with a smart contract. Using Ethersjs, we are able to interact with the Ethereum blockchain with ease and expand to more complex use cases. Further improvements to this demo that we have created would be to create a better design, add more wallet integrations, and separation of concerns between the wallet and contract component. With this demo app, you can now include a wallet app by just including the wallet web component in your dapp. 
```
